AI #2096: Add normative requirement guidance for same column names across datasets (#2295)
FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec: specification/datasets/invoice_detail/columns/chargecategory.md

* ChargeCategory MUST be of type String.
* ChargeCategory MUST NOT be null.
* ChargeCategory MUST be one of the allowed values.
* When the *charge* does not aggregate multiple classifications, ChargeCategory MUST adhere to the following requirements:
  * ChargeCategory MUST be "Usage" when the *charge* represents consumption of a service or resource.
  * ChargeCategory MUST be "Purchase" when the *charge* represents acquisition of a service, resource, or *commitment*.
  * ChargeCategory MUST be "Tax" when the *charge* represents taxes levied by the relevant authorities.
  * ChargeCategory MUST be "Credit" when the *charge* represents a financial incentive or allowance unrelated to other *charges*.

>   * ChargeCategory MUST be "Adjustment" when the *charge* represents a billing modification that does not fall into other ChargeCategories.

Reviewer: good catch!

* When the *charge* aggregates multiple classifications, ChargeCategory MUST adhere to the following requirements:
  * ChargeCategory MAY be "Usage" when the record aggregates *charges* across multiple allowed values other than "Tax" (for example, aggregation of "Usage" and "Credit" is allowed, but not "Usage" and "Tax").

> ## Implementation Context

Author: Changing to `Implementation Guidance` per #2310.  @ijurica FYI.

```suggestion
## Implementation Guidance
```

> Unlike the [CostAndUsage](#datasets.costandusage) dataset, which requires strict categorization per row, [InvoiceDetail](#datasets.invoicedetail) records are designed to align with physical or electronic invoice line items. Invoice issuers frequently aggregate different types of transactions (e.g., combining base usage and promotional credits) into a single billed line item. To accurately reflect the issued invoice without breaking schema validation, the `InvoiceDetail` dataset permits the `"Usage"` category to represent an aggregate of multiple charge types, provided that `"Tax"` charges are kept distinctly separate.

Reviewer: nit: not blocking!

```suggestion
Unlike the [CostAndUsage](#datasets.costandusage) dataset, which requires strict categorization per row, [InvoiceDetail](#datasets.invoicedetail) records are designed to align with physical or electronic invoice line items. Invoice issuers frequently aggregate different categories of transactions (e.g., combining base usage and promotional credits) into a single invoice line item. To accurately reflect the issued invoice without breaking schema validation, the `InvoiceDetail` dataset permits the "Usage" category to represent an aggregate of multiple charge categories, provided that "Tax" charges are kept distinctly separate.
```

Although we're considering moving to the `Allowed Value` format, the current convention across the spec is "Allowed Value" in the vast majority of cases.

Reviewer: one more thing to consider:

> When the invoice does not provide an explicit charge category for a line item, a single line item may inherently represent a mix of charge categories (e.g., combining base usage and promotional credits).

instead of this:

> Invoice issuers frequently aggregate different categories of transactions (e.g., combining base usage and promotional credits) into a single invoice line item.

Author: Integrating both of your suggestions.

```suggestion
Unlike the [CostAndUsage](#datasets.costandusage) dataset, which requires strict categorization per row, [InvoiceDetail](#datasets.invoicedetail) records are designed to align with physical or electronic invoice line items. When the invoice does not provide an explicit charge category for a line item, a single line item may inherently represent a mix of charge categories (e.g., combining base usage and promotional credits). To accurately reflect the issued invoice without breaking schema validation, the `InvoiceDetail` dataset permits the "Usage" category to represent an aggregate of multiple charge categories, provided that "Tax" charges are kept distinctly separate.
```
